Yes, yes, ma'am, I've
lost my direction and don't want to
strive or try anymore. People in
Vietnam think I'll have a life of
luxury, but they don't realize that I have to
wake up early, come home late, and
carry patients weighing around 100kg while I
only weigh 41kg.
On top of that, my language skills are terrible; sometimes I understand, sometimes I don't. When I'm
sad, I want to go home to my
parents, but I know I shouldn't. I
tell myself I have to
try harder, but I really have no
motivation to strive. I hope you can
give me some advice. Thank you, ma'am. My
friends, when people choose to
work abroad, they envision
a life they dream of. They
give up everything in their homeland, betting on
a new life with
more money, access to a stronger economy,
better English, a better job, a
better future, and so on.
But then, all they realize is that
it's not as rosy as they
imagined. The language barrier and the
extremely stressful work are what make it so special.  The desire for a high salary
often makes people miss their families and loved ones, causing them to hesitate
and want to give up and return home.
So, in this case, what advice would Ms. Phan Thi Yen
give to
this person, as well as many other people
living and working abroad?
But I invite you all to listen to
Ms. Yen's advice in response to the
question from the student who asked the program
[music]. "
Hello, my dear, our hearts consist
of two parts. First, the part that is
subdued, meaning when we encounter any
obstacle and are subdued and retreat.
Second, the part that is victorious. For example, when going into
battle, seeing the enemy, we decide to charge forward and win.
Or in
any difficult situation, even if we
die, we will never accept
defeat.
When our hearts develop,
we will live with whatever we are given, and we must consider whether
that brings us benefit or not.
Before, when you made a decision, the more you focused your
heart, the better. No one forced you,
so you should respect your decision."
We live in this life because of
karma, so when you have
this karma, even if you are in
Germany but in Vietnam, you will still be affected there.
For example, if you go there and encounter
difficulties, like dealing with critically ill patients who
speak incoherently and can't understand each other,
then in Vietnam, when you try to find a
job, you might be oppressed and bullied by your superiors,
unable to express yourself,
hindering your development, and
your work will be arduous, causing
you to feel dissatisfied and
depressed. Therefore, the important factor is the karma you sowed in your previous life that leads to this suffering and despair in this life.
Knowing this, we must
transform our karma, and to transform it,
we must transform it
within ourselves, not just by returning to
Vietnam.
So now, try to move
forward. Don't think negatively like that
because it will block your progress.
First, be persistent in learning the language, and in
just a few years you will become fluent.
Second...  Regarding the work, if you can't
stop your friend, then
find someone to help you. As
for feeling bored and quickly thinking that there's
more money here than in Vietnam, it means
you lack empathy and
compassion. This is because in a previous life you didn't
empathize with the hardships of others. For
example, right now, you
see many parents working hard to earn
money, but many children are wasteful,
demanding, and demanding, completely unaware of their
parents' hardships. Therefore, in the
next life, those children will also fall
into the same situation: they work very hard, they don't have
money to send home, while their parents at home
are living lavishly and spending money, and they think
they are making a lot of money far away.
That is karma. So
now, you should talk to your
family about your hardships so that
everyone understands and empathizes with you.
In this life, you
should always be understanding and empathetic towards
others, and learn to live frugally and practice charity
to transform your past karma.
You can make offerings to the Three Jewels and dedicate the merit
to your parents in many lifetimes.
Parents in this life pray
that everyone may be blessed with the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) and
gather together. You should also frequently
listen to Dharma teachings and repent to transform
this cycle.
If you can do that, your mind will
feel joyful. You are sad because sadness
is caused by karma, which is due to a
lack of merit. Now, if you have the mindset and
practice of giving and making offerings,
your merit will increase, and you will
see your soul become joyful and harmonious. I wish you always
strive to practice to have
a happy life.
But I have heard
that wherever there is no happiness, we
should sow the seeds of happiness
for ourselves. But I hope that through Ms. Pham Thi Yen's answer, many of you will have more faith in the path you are on. Try to cultivate good intentions in your heart
so that you may be happy
and peaceful. As long as we sow good seeds,
we will surely reap delicious fruits. This is the
12th episode of the radio program "Mind, Ms. Pham Thi Yen".
To share your questions, you can send them
to Ms. Pham Thi Yen by sharing them
on the Facebook group "Confiding with Ms. Pham
Thi Yen at Hoan Quan" or by sending a
direct message to the fanpage "Pham Thi Yen at
Hoan Quan". The
13th episode of the
radio program "Confiding with Ms. Pham Thi Yen" will
return soon at 10 PM
next Saturday. Thank you for your
attention.
Goodbye and see you again!
[Music]
[Applause]